my name is dr. Nara Chamberlain and I'm
a mathematical model er what is
mathematical modelling mathematical
modelling is when you look into reality
to convert that reality into mathematics
find a solution then apply that solution
into the real world and build a
simulation model with this range of
prices an example of mathematical
modeling was faced back into 1996 there
was a mathematician a French
mathematician called Laplace he looked
up the sky as says out there in space
there exists a body that not even light
can escape the scientist and the math
pitches at a time didn't agree and
thinking you must be crazy
but what Laplace actually discovered was
a black hole and this was over 100 years
before Einstein theory of relativity
can you imagine a French mathematician
who discovered it without the aid of the
computers x-rays or satellites so can
you imagine what a mathematician can do
using mathematical modeling are things
that he can see now on earth this is the
way way way way way back you know this
is me
actually do when I just agree earlier on
a quest degree is actually to work on an
arrangement for the area and this is why
she more first time about to be a
mathematical marketer and my personal
interpretation of the Mac back
compartment somebody that looks into
reality then translated into mathematics
come up with a solution and it applied
into the real world I know I had the
experience of being a real life or in
medical model which simulation elbow has
nothing to do with us
actually as for me I used to work on an
RAF base to work out when a kitchen
should be refurbished you're thinking
surely I should be working on aircraft
but to find out when the optimum time to
refurbish the kitchen was very
sophisticated mathematically another job
that I worked is when I went over to the
Netherlands working on a computer virus
to make a Formula One car go faster
again this is another example of
mathematical modeling in action
you